README.md, before:

# SciPy 2022 Tutorial: Introduction to Numerical Computing With NumPy

#### Presented by: Logan Thomas, [Enthought, Inc.](https://www.enthought.com)

This repository contains all the material needed by students registered for the Numpy tutorial of SciPy 2022 on Monday, July 11th 2021.

For a smooth experience, you will need to make sure that you install or update your Python distribution and download the tutorial material _before_ the day of the tutorial.

## Running the Exercises the (recommended) Easy Way

Run with Binder by clicking this icon: [![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/enthought/Numpy-Tutorial-SciPyConf-2022/main)


## Running the Exercise Locally

### Install Python

If you don't already have a working python distribution, you may download Anaconda Python ([https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual](https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual)).


### Install Packages

To be able to run the examples, demos and exercises, you must have the following packages installed:

- ipython 7.16+ (for running, experimenting and doing exercises)
- jupyter 1.0+
- matplotlib 3.3+
- numpy 1.17+
- pillow 7.2+
- pyqt 5.9+

If you are using Anaconda, you can use the Anaconda Prompt (Windows) or Terminal.app (macOS) to create an environment with the necessary packages:

1. Open the Anaconda Prompt or Terminal.app using the below instructions:
    - **Windows**: Click Start and search for "Anaconda Prompt". Click on the application to launch a new Anaconda Prompt window.
    - **macOS**: Open Spotlight Search (using Cmd+Space) and type "Terminal.app". Click on the application to launch a new Terminal.app window.   

2. Create a new Anaconda virtual environment by executing the below command in the application window you opened in step 1 above.

    ```
    $ conda create -n numpy-tutorial ipython jupyter matplotlib numpy pillow pyqt 
    ```

3. To test your installation, please execute the `check_env.py` script in the environment where you have installed the requirements. If you created an Anaconda environment using the instructions above, keep the application window that you opened in step 1 active (or launch the platform specific application again -- Anaconda Prompt for Windows or Terminal.app for macOS), navigate to where you have this GitHub repository, and type:

    ```
    $ conda activate numpy-tutorial
    $ python check_env.py
    ```

You should see a window pop up with a plot that looks vaguely like a smiley face.

## Download Tutorial Materials

This GitHub repository is all that is needed in terms of tutorial content. The simplest solution is to download the material using this link:

https://github.com/enthought/Numpy-Tutorial-SciPyConf-2022/archive/main.zip

If you are familiar with Git, you can also clone this repository with:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/enthought/Numpy-Tutorial-SciPyConf-2022.git
```

It will create a new folder named `Numpy-Tutorial-SciPyConf-2022/` with all the content you will need: the slides I will go through (`introduction_to_numerical_computing_with_numpy_manual.pdf`), and a folder of exercises.


## Questions? Problems?

You may post messages to the `#tutorial-intro-to-numerical-computing-with-numpy` Slack channel for this tutorial at in the official Slack team: [https://scipy2022.slack.com](https://scipy2022.slack.com) .

Commit message:

DOC: update README with additional anaconda info, check output image, and no package pins

README.md, after:

# SciPy 2022 Tutorial: Introduction to Numerical Computing With NumPy

#### Presented by: Logan Thomas, [Enthought, Inc.](https://www.enthought.com)

This repository contains all the material needed by students registered for the Numpy tutorial of SciPy 2022 on Monday, July 11th 2021.

For a smooth experience, you will need to make sure that you install or update your Python distribution and download the tutorial material _before_ the day of the tutorial.

## Running the Exercises the (recommended) Easy Way

Run with Binder by clicking this icon: [![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/enthought/Numpy-Tutorial-SciPyConf-2022/main)


## Running the Exercise Locally

### Install Python

If you don't already have a working python distribution, you may download Anaconda Python ([https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual](https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual)).


### Install Packages

To be able to run the examples, demos and exercises, you must have the following packages installed:

- `ipython` (for running, experimenting, and doing exercises)
- `jupyter` (for access to the Jupyter Notebook web-based interactive computing platform)
- `matplotlib`
- `numpy`
- `pillow`
- `pyqt`

If you are using Anaconda, you can use the Anaconda Prompt (Windows) or Terminal.app (macOS) to create an environment with the necessary packages:

1. Open the Anaconda Prompt or Terminal.app using the below instructions:
    - **Windows**: Click Start and search for "Anaconda Prompt". Click on the application to launch a new Anaconda Prompt window.
    - **macOS**: Open Spotlight Search (using Cmd+Space) and type "Terminal.app". Click on the application to launch a new Terminal.app window.   

2. Create a new Anaconda virtual environment by executing the below command in the application window you opened in step 1 above.

    ```
    $ conda create -n numpy-tutorial ipython jupyter matplotlib numpy pillow pyqt 
    ```

3. To test your installation, please execute the `check_env.py` script in the environment where you have installed the requirements. If you created an Anaconda environment using the instructions above, keep the application window that you opened in step 1 active (or launch the platform specific application again -- Anaconda Prompt for Windows or Terminal.app for macOS), navigate to where you have this GitHub repository, and type:

    ```
    $ conda activate numpy-tutorial
    $ python check_env.py
    ```

You should see a window pop up with a plot that looks vaguely like a smiley face (as shown below).

![](assets/images/check_env_output.png)

## Download Tutorial Materials

This GitHub repository is all that is needed in terms of tutorial content. The simplest solution is to download the material using this link:

https://github.com/enthought/Numpy-Tutorial-SciPyConf-2022/archive/main.zip

If you are familiar with Git, you can also clone this repository with:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/enthought/Numpy-Tutorial-SciPyConf-2022.git
```

It will create a new folder named `Numpy-Tutorial-SciPyConf-2022/` with all the content you will need: the slides I will go through (`introduction_to_numerical_computing_with_numpy_manual.pdf`), and a folder of exercises.


## Questions? Problems?

You may post messages to the `#tutorial-intro-to-numerical-computing-with-numpy` Slack channel for this tutorial at in the official Slack team: [https://scipy2022.slack.com](https://scipy2022.slack.com) .


## Additional Anaconda Resources
- [Managing environments](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html)

  - To create an Anaconda environment from an existing `environment.yml` file:

  ```
  $ conda env create -f environment.yml -n numpy-tutorial
  ```

  - To remove an existing Anaconda environment:

  ```
  $ conda remove --name numpy-tutorial --all
  ```

- To completely uninstall Anaconda, see the "Uninstalling Anaconda" documentation [here](https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/install/uninstall/).
